Now, let's add an incoming
or an input rule on the dev server
that will allow SSH connection
from the client laptop.
To do this, run "iptables -A
INPUT -p tcp -s
172.16.238.187
--dport 22 -j ACCEPT."
Here, A stands for add or append rule.
-P is the protocol, which is tcp.
-S is the source IP
or range from which you want
the connection to be permitted.
This is the IP address of the client.
The dport is the destination port,
which is port 22 for SSH.
Finally, -j is the action to take,
which in our case is to accept
the connection.
We have successfully added the rule
on the dev app server.
When we run the "iptables -L" command,
we see the new rule listed,
but wait, what would happen if another client
tried to connect to the dev server?
Would it work?
Well, we do not have a rule created for it yet.
As a result, this connection attempt
will go through the default policy,
which accepts all input connections.
Our requirement is to allow only the client
to be able to SSH with these dev servers.
To do this, let's add another input rule,
but this time with an action
to drop the traffic.
We will use the same command as before,
but this time without the -s option
and the -j option with the value of reject.
Let us now list the iptable rules again
by using the -L option.
You will see that we have two input rules.
The first one is an accept rule
specifically for the source client
for SSH port 22.
The second one is the rule we just created,
which drops SSH connection
from the source anywhere.
This rule will effectively drop
SSH connection attempts
from all other servers.
If we add another rule now,
it will be added to the bottom of the chain.
Now, remember, the sequence in which
we added the two rules is very important.
Iptable rules are implemented
from top to bottom.
This means that
in the case of multiple rules
matching a source or a destination
and the ports,
the rule that appears first in the list
is applied and effective.
Other rules below it are ignored.
In our example, the input rule for SSH accept
from the client machine is at the top,
which means it is effective.
The second rule will drop SSH traffic
from all other servers,
except the client machine
as it already has the accept rule in effect
because of rule number one.
Now, let's add the rest of the rules
on DEVAPP01.
To do this, let's first break down
the connections to accept
or drop based on our requirements.
We have three outgoing connections
on the app server.
The DB server on port 5432
and the software repository server
on port 80 should be allowed.
HTTP and HTTPS connections
to the internet should be dropped.
We also need to allow HTTP port 80 access
from the client laptop.
Using the same syntax as before,
we can add all these rules like this.
Now, if we list the iptable rules,
we should see an output like this.
We have added three input rules
and four output rules.
This setup should filter
incoming and outgoing data
according to our requirement.
What if we need to access the site
caleston-hq.com
using HTTPS from the DEVAPP01 server?
Will it work?
Since we have an outbound drop rule
for anywhere on port 443
and no preceding allow rule
to this destination,
this connection will not work.
To fix this, we need to add
another accept output rule
above the drop rule at number four
that blocks all HTTPS connections.
To do this, add another rule,
but this time with the -I option instead of -A.
-I inserts the rule to the top of the chain
instead of the bottom.
Use the IP address of the target
with the -D option,
the destination port of 443,
and accept with the -j option.
This will add the accept rule
to the first position in the chain,
taking precedence over the drop rule,
which is now at position 5.
The HTTPS connection should work now.
Finally, to delete a rule,
use the iptables -D option.
For example, to delete the output rule
at position 5,
run "iptables -D OUTPUT" command
followed by the position number
of the rule you want to delete,
which is five in this case.
We are now done with the
configuration on the DEVAPP01.
We have one last thing yet to be set up.
We have to ensure that
the traffic on port 5432
on the DB server is only accepted
when the source is DEVAPP01 server.
To do this, let's add a chain on the DB server.
The first one would be an accept rule for
incoming connections from the app server.
The next rule would be to drop
all traffic on the DB port
for connections from all other servers.
Before we conclude,
let's quickly summarize how we are
securing the DB server.
We have three rules configured.
On the app server, we have an output rule
which will allow the app server
to connect to the DB port 5432
on the DB server.
On the DB server, we have an input rule
that allows connections
from app server to port 5432.
Finally, we have added another input rule
that will drop connections
from everywhere else
to port 5432.
This means that only the dev app server
will be allowed to connect to the database.
What happens when a session is established
between the app and the Postgres DB?
Do we need an input rule on the app server
to accept the returning traffic?
Well, in this case, the answer is no.
This can be understood
by breaking down the connection
between the application and the database
into two high-level steps.
The application server is able to connect
to DB on port 5432.
We have already added the iptable rule
to facilitate this outbound traffic.
Once the connection is established,
data is returned back from DB
to the IP address of the app server
and a random TCP port.
To validate this, run a netstat command
on either the source or destination server
and search for the port 5432 like this.
You will notice that the destination port
is 5432 as expected,
but the source port on the app server
in this case is 44060.
Now, if we inspect the inbound rules
on the app server,
you will see that we are accepting
all traffic on the server,
except for the SSH port.
This means that the returning traffic
from the database server
will not need any additional rules to work.
Now, remember, the port 44060 is ephemeral,
which means the connections will not always
use that same port on the app server.
In most Linux kernels,
any port between 32768
to 60999 can be used for this connection.
Now, head over to the "Hands-On Labs"
and create your own iptable rules.